# BeatGenerator
A program that algorithmically generates a 7-track beat based on a pre-determined template and pseudorandom variables

If you just want to actually know how to use this application, skip over the following block.

=======================================================================================================


I started this project in my junior year of undergraduate studies. I wrote this for a class called "Music and Appropriation," where I became
concerned with the question of musical authenticity. The gist is that a work of art cannot be considered an "appropriation" unless there exists
a previous work which is considered to be "authentic." My goal with this project was to investigate what it actually means for art---and music
in particular---to be "authentic." 

This program (pseudo-)randomly generates a tempo between a predetermined range, a key in major or minor, a chord progression within that key, 
a melody to accompany the progression, and a drum pattern. My hope was to invoke the question authenticity by asking whether or not the music
generated by this program is actually MY music. I wrote the algorithm, sure, and from a legal standpoint the music is copyrighted under my name.
That being said, each invocation of this application produces a musical work independently of my creative input, as I did not write any of the 
progressions or melodies used (technically speaking the built-in pseudorandom python algorithms did). 

Philosophical discourse aside, this is my first non-trivial application that I have designed and implemented from scratch. I learned a lot in making
this program, and if nothing else I hope to use the knowledge in future programming endeavors.


=======================================================================================================

This app is still in the early stages of its life. Currently, it only generates chord progressions based on a random key. To use it in its current state, you need to have a program on your computer that can play midi files. This program generates a file called "output.mid" by default, which is the file you need to play in order to hear the results of the program. 

© Copyright 2022, Aiden McCormack, All rights reserved. 
